---
layout: post
title: "Introduction to Common Gateway Interface (CGI)"
category: general
date: 2017-05-01
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 7a439515759e2eac
highlights: false
---

<blockquote> The following post is written based on LAMP (Linux / Apache / MySQL / PHP) tech stack. </blockquote>

<pre> <b> {% localize available_in_all_lang %}</b> </pre>

<h1> Background </h1>

When a user clicks on a hyperlink, the web browser first make a request to the HTTP server. This web server then process this request (e.g. URL)  and look for the file. Then, the web browser takes the response from the server and displays it.

However, we can set up the server so that it executes a script when the web browser makes a request and then the browser displays the output of the script (or program). These scripts are called 'CGI scripts' and these can be in different languages such as Perl and Python.

<h1> Location of CGI scripts </h1>

CGI scripts to be executed by the HTTP server are kept in a pre-configured directory and this directory is usually named as '/cgi-bin.'

<pre> <code> PERL CGI files have the extension <b>.cgi</b></code></pre>

<h1> Is CGI the best way? </h1>

In the case of LAMP stack, there are few ways to execute PHP scripts: 1) Apache module (mod_php) 2) CGI 3) FastCGI.

The problem with CGI is that whenever a user loads a page, PHP will have to read <code>php.ini</code> and set its settings, load all the extensions and start to parse the script. This is a lot of work. On the other hand, if a module is used, these steps are only done once. FastCGI with nginx also used to be very popular but it seems that php-fpm is now very popular since it sort of combines benefits of Apache (mod_php) and FastCGI.

Therefore, CGI is a concept that should be understood but not to be use nowadays (although there may be a use case for it).
